---
layout: default
title: • DOCUMENTATION OF PLANNED CONTROL IMPLEMENTATIONS, TASK S-4
parent: 3.3 SELECT 
grand_parent: CHAPTER THREE, THE PROCESS
nav_order: 31004
---

### DOCUMENTATION OF PLANNED CONTROL IMPLEMENTATIONS 
TASK S-4
{: .fs-4 .label }
Document the controls for the system and environment of operation in security and privacy plans.  
**Potential Inputs:** Security categorization; organization- and system-level risk assessment results (security, privacy, and/or supply chain); system element information; system component inventory; business impact or criticality analysis; list of security and privacy requirements allocated to the system, system elements, and environment of operation; risk management strategy; list of selected controls for the system and environment of operation; organizational security, privacy, and SCRM policies.  
**Expected Outputs:** Security and privacy plans for the system.    
**Primary Responsibility:** System Owner; Common Control Provider.  
**Supporting Roles:** Authorizing Official or Authorizing Official Designated Representative; Information Owner or Steward; Systems Security Engineer; Privacy Engineer; System Security Officer; System Privacy Officer.  
**System Development Life Cycle Phase:** New – Development/Acquisition. Existing – Operations/Maintenance.  
**Discussion:** Security and privacy plans contain an overview of the security and privacy requirements for the system and the controls selected to satisfy the requirements. The plans describe the intended application of each selected control in the context of the system with a sufficient level of detail to correctly implement the control and to subsequently assess the effectiveness of the control. The control documentation describes how system-specific and hybrid controls are implemented and the plans and expectations regarding the functionality of the system. The description includes planned inputs, expected behavior, and expected outputs where appropriate, typically for those controls implemented in the hardware, software, or firmware components of the system. Common controls are also identified in the plans. There is no requirement to provide implementation details for inherited common controls. Rather, those details are provided in the plans for common control providers and are made available to system owners. For hybrid controls, the organization specifies in the system-level plans the parts of the control that are provided by the common control provider and the parts of the control that are implemented at the system level. 

Organizations may develop a consolidated plan that incorporates security and privacy plans or maintain separate plans. If developing a consolidated plan, privacy programs collaborate with security programs to ensure that the plan reflects the selection of controls that provide protections with respect to managing the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of PII; and delineates roles and responsibilities for control implementation, assessment, and monitoring. For separate system security plans and privacy plans, organizations cross-reference the controls in all plans to help maintain accountability and awareness. The senior agency official for privacy reviews and approves the privacy plan (or integrated plan) before the plan is provided to the authorizing official or designated representative for review (see Task S-6). Organizations may document the control selection and tailoring information in documents equivalent to security and privacy plans, for example, in systems engineering or system life cycle artifacts or documents. 

Documentation of planned control implementations allows for traceability of decisions prior to and after the deployment of the system. To the extent possible, organizations reference existing documentation (either by vendors or other organizations that have employed the same or similar systems or system elements), use automated support tools, and coordinate across the organization to reduce redundancy and increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of control documentation. The documentation also addresses platform dependencies and includes any additional information necessary to describe how the capability required is to be achieved at the level of detail sufficient to support control implementation and assessment. Documentation for control implementations follows best practices for hardware and software development and for systems security and privacy engineering disciplines and is also consistent with established policies and procedures for documenting activities in the SDLC. In certain situations, security controls can be implemented in ways that create privacy risks. The privacy program supports documentation of privacy risk considerations and the implementations intended to mitigate them. 

For controls that are mechanism-based, organizations take advantage of the functional specifications provided by or obtainable from manufacturers, vendors, and systems integrators. This includes any documentation that may assist the organization during the development, implementation, assessment, and monitoring of controls. For certain controls, organizations obtain control implementation information from the appropriate organizational entities (e.g., physical security offices, facilities offices, records management offices, and human resource offices). Since the enterprise architecture and the security and privacy architectures established by the organization guide and inform the organizational approach used to plan for and implement controls, documenting the process helps to ensure traceability in meeting the security and privacy requirements.  
 
**References:** [FIPS 199]; [FIPS 200]; [SP 800-18]; [SP 800-30]; [SP 800-53]; [SP 800-64]; [SP 800-160 v1] (System Requirements Definition, Architecture Definition, and Design Definition Processes); [SP 800-161] (Respond and Chapter 3); [IR 8179]; [CNSSI 1253]; [NIST CSF] (Core [Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, Recover Functions]; Profiles).  

