---
layout: default
title: . ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
nav_order: 70000
---

#### APPENDIX D 
{: .no_toc }
## ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
{: .no_toc }

KEY PARTICIPANTS IN THE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS

1. TOC
{:toc}

The following sections describe the roles and responsibilities of key participants involved in an organization’s risk management process.<sup>112</sup> Recognizing that organizations have varying missions, business functions, and organizational structures, there may be differences in naming conventions for risk management roles and how risk management responsibilities are allocated among organizational personnel (e.g., multiple individuals filling a single role or one individual filling multiple roles).<sup>113</sup> However, the basic functions remain the same. The application of the RMF described in this publication is flexible, allowing organizations to effectively accomplish the intent of the specific tasks within their respective organizational structures to best manage security and privacy risks. Many risk management roles defined in this publication have counterpart roles in the SDLC processes carried out by organizations. Organizations align their risk management roles with similar (or complementary) roles defined for the SDLC whenever possible.<sup>114</sup>

### AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL
The _authorizing official_ is a senior official or executive with the authority to formally assume responsibility and accountability for operating a system; providing common controls inherited by organizational systems; or using a system, service, or application from an external provider. The authorizing official is the only organizational official who can accept the security and privacy risk to organizational operations, organizational assets, and individuals.<sup>115</sup> Authorizing officials typically have budgetary oversight for the system or are responsible for the mission and/or business operations supported by the system. Accordingly, authorizing officials are in management positions with a level of authority commensurate with understanding and accepting such security and privacy risks. Authorizing officials approve plans, memorandums of agreement or understanding, plans of action and milestones, and determine whether significant changes in the information systems or environments of operation require reauthorization.  

Authorizing officials coordinate their activities with common control providers, system owners, chief information officers, senior agency information security officers, senior agency officials for privacy, system security and privacy officers, control assessors, senior accountable officials for risk management/risk executive (function), and other interested parties during the authorization process. With the increasing complexity of the mission/business processes in an organization, partnership arrangements, and the use of shared services, it is possible that a system may involve co-authorizing officials.<sup>116</sup> If so, agreements are established between the co-authorizing officials and documented in the security and privacy plans. Authorizing officials are responsible and accountable for ensuring that authorization activities and functions that are delegated to authorizing official designated representatives are carried out as specified. For federal agencies, the role of authorizing official is an inherent U.S. Government function and is assigned to government personnel only.

***

<sup>112</sup> Organizations may define other roles to support the risk management process.
{: .fs-2}
<sup>113</sup> Organizations ensure that there are no conflicts of interest when assigning the same individual to multiple risk management roles. See RMF Prepare-Organization Level step, Task P-1.
{: .fs-2}
<sup>114</sup> For example, the SDLC role of system developer or program manager can be aligned with the role of system owner; and the role of mission or business owner can be aligned with the role of authorizing official. [SP 800-64] provides guidance on information security in the SDLC.
{: .fs-2}
<sup>115</sup> The responsibility and accountability of authorizing officials described in [FIPS 200] was extended in [SP 800-53] to include risks to other organizations and the Nation.
{: .fs-2}
<sup>116</sup> [OMB A-130] provides additional information about authorizing officials and co-authorizing officials.
{: .fs-2}
***

### AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE
The _authorizing official designated representative_ is an organizational official designated by the authorizing official who is empowered to act on behalf of the authorizing official to coordinate and conduct the day-to-day activities associated with managing risk to information systems and organizations. This includes carrying out many of the activities related to the execution of the RMF. The only activity that cannot be delegated by the authorizing official to the designated representative is the authorization decision and signing of the associated authorization decision document (i.e., the acceptance of risk).  

### CHIEF ACQUISITION OFFICER
The _chief acquisition officer_ is an organizational official designated by the head of an agency to advise and assist the head of agency and other agency officials to ensure that the mission of the agency is achieved through the management of the agency’s acquisition activities. The chief acquisition officer monitors the performance of acquisition activities and programs; establishes clear lines of authority, accountability, and responsibility for acquisition decision making within the agency; manages the direction and implementation of acquisition policy for the agency; and establishes policies, procedures, and practices that promote full and open competition from responsible sources to fulfill best value requirements considering the nature of the property or service procured. The Chief Acquisition Officer coordinates with mission or business owners, authorizing officials, senior accountable official for risk management, system owners, common control providers, senior agency information security officer, senior agency official for privacy, and risk executive (function) to ensure that security and privacy requirements are defined in organizational procurements and acquisitions.  

### CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER  
The _chief information officer_<sup>117</sup> is an organizational official responsible for designating a senior agency information security officer; developing and maintaining security policies, procedures, and control techniques to address security requirements; overseeing personnel with significant responsibilities for security and ensuring that the personnel are adequately trained; assisting senior organizational officials concerning their security responsibilities; and reporting to the head of the agency on the effectiveness of the organization’s security program, including progress of remedial actions. The chief information officer, with the support of the senior accountable official for risk management, the risk executive (function), and the senior agency information security officer, works closely with authorizing officials and their designated representatives to help ensure that:  
* An organization-wide security program is effectively implemented resulting in adequate security for all organizational systems and environments of operation;
* Security and privacy (including supply chain) risk management considerations are integrated into programming/planning/budgeting cycles, enterprise architectures, the SDLC, and acquisitions;
* Organizational systems and common controls are covered by approved system security plans and possess current authorizations;
* Security activities required across the organization are accomplished in an efficient, cost- effective, and timely manner; and
* There is centralized reporting of security activities.
The chief information officer and authorizing officials determine the allocation of resources dedicated to the protection of systems supporting the organization’s missions and business functions based on organizational priorities. For information systems that process personally identifiable information, the chief information officer and authorizing officials coordinate any determination about the allocation of resources dedicated to the protection of those systems with the senior agency official for privacy. For selected systems, the chief information officer may be designated as an authorizing official or a co-authorizing official with other senior organizational officials. The role of chief information officer is an inherent U.S. Government function and is assigned to government personnel only. 

***

<sup>117</sup> When an organization has not designated a formal chief information officer position, [FISMA] requires that the associated responsibilities be handled by a comparable organizational official.
{: .fs-2}

*** 

### COMMON CONTROL PROVIDER
The _common control provider_ is an individual, group, or organization that is responsible for the implementation, assessment, and monitoring of common controls (i.e., controls inherited by organizational systems).<sup>118</sup> Common control providers also are responsible for ensuring the documentation of organization-defined common controls in security and privacy plans (or equivalent documents prescribed by the organization); ensuring that required assessments of the common controls are conducted by qualified assessors with an appropriate level of independence; documenting assessment findings in control assessment reports; and producing plans of action and milestones for controls having deficiencies. Security and privacy plans, security and privacy assessment reports, and plans of action and milestones for common controls (or summary of such information) are made available to the system owners of systems inheriting common controls after the information is reviewed and approved by the authorizing officials accountable for those common controls.  

The senior agency official for privacy is responsible for designating which privacy controls may be treated as common controls. Privacy controls that are designated as common controls are documented in the organization’s privacy program plan.<sup>119</sup> The senior agency official for privacy has oversight responsibility for common controls in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks and is responsible for assessing those controls. At the discretion of the organization, privacy controls that are designated as common controls may be assessed by an independent assessor. In all cases, however, the senior agency official for privacy retains responsibility and accountability for the organization’s privacy program, including any privacy functions performed by independent assessors. Privacy plans and privacy control assessment reports are made available to systems owners whose systems inherit privacy controls that are designated as common controls. 

***

<sup>118</sup> Organizations can have multiple common control providers depending on how security and privacy responsibilities are allocated organization-wide. Common control providers may be system owners when the common controls are resident within an organizational system.
{: .fs-2}
<sup>119</sup> A privacy program plan is a formal document that provides an overview of an agency’s privacy program, including a description of the structure of the privacy program; the role of the senior agency official for privacy and other privacy officials and staff; the strategic goals and objectives of the privacy program; the resources dedicated to the privacy program; and the program management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks.
{: .fs-2}

***

### CONTROL ASSESSOR
The _control assessor_ is an individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a comprehensive assessment of implemented controls and control enhancements to determine the effectiveness of the controls (i.e., the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security and privacy requirements for the system and the organization). For systems, implemented system-specific controls and system-implemented parts of hybrid controls are assessed. For common controls, implemented common controls and common control- implemented parts of hybrid controls are assessed. The system owner and common control provider rely on the security and privacy expertise and judgment of the assessor to assess the implemented controls using the assessment procedures specified in the security and privacy assessment plans. Multiple control assessors who are differentiated by their expertise in specific control requirements or technologies may be required to conduct the assessment effectively. Prior to initiating the control assessment, assessors review the security and privacy plans to facilitate development of the assessment plans. Control assessors provide an assessment of the severity of the deficiencies discovered in the system, environment of operation, and common controls and can recommend corrective actions to address the identified vulnerabilities. For system-level control assessments, control assessors do not assess inherited controls, and only assess the system-implemented portions of hybrid controls. Control assessors prepare security and privacy assessment reports containing the results and findings from the assessment.  

The required level of assessor independence is determined by the authorizing official based on laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, or guidelines. When a control assessment is conducted in support of an authorization decision or ongoing authorization, the authorizing official makes an explicit determination of the degree of independence required. Assessor independence is a factor in preserving an impartial and unbiased assessment process; determining the credibility of the assessment results; and ensuring that the authorizing official receives objective information to make an informed, risk-based authorization decision.  

The senior agency official for privacy is responsible for assessing privacy controls and for providing privacy information to the authorizing official. At the discretion of the organization, privacy controls may be assessed by an independent assessor. However, in all cases, the senior agency official for privacy retains responsibility and accountability for the privacy program of the organization, including any privacy functions performed by the independent assessors.  

### ENTERPRISE ARCHITECT
The _enterprise architect_ is an individual or group responsible for working with the leadership and subject matter experts in an organization to build a holistic view of the organization's missions and business functions, mission/business processes, information, and information technology assets. With respect to information security and privacy, enterprise architects:
* Implement an enterprise architecture strategy that facilitates effective security and privacy solutions;
* Coordinate with security and privacy architects to determine the optimal placement of systems/system elements within the enterprise architecture and to address security and privacy issues between systems and the enterprise architecture;
* Assist in reducing complexity within the IT infrastructure to facilitate security;
* Assist with determining appropriate control implementations and initial configuration
baselines as they relate to the enterprise architecture;
* Collaborate with system owners and authorizing officials to facilitate authorization boundary determinations and allocation of controls to system elements;
* Serve as part of the Risk Executive (function); and
* Assist with integration of the organizational risk management strategy and system-level security and privacy requirements into program, planning, and budgeting activities, the SDLC, acquisition processes, security and privacy (including supply chain) risk management, and systems engineering processes.

### HEAD OF AGENCY
The _head of agency_ is responsible and accountable for providing information security protections commensurate with the risk to organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation—that is, risk resulting from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information collected or maintained by or on behalf of the agency; and the information systems used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency or other organization on behalf of an agency. The head of agency is also the senior official in an organization with the responsibility for ensuring that privacy interests are protected and that PII is managed responsibly within the organization. The heads of agencies ensure that:
* Information security and privacy management processes are integrated with strategic and operational planning processes;
* Senior officials within the organization provide information security for the information and systems supporting the operations and assets under their control;
* Senior agency officials for privacy are designated who are responsible and accountable for ensuring compliance with applicable privacy requirements, managing privacy risk, and the organization’s privacy program; and
* The organization has adequately trained personnel to assist in complying with security and privacy requirements in legislation, executive orders, policies, directives, instructions, standards, and guidelines.
The head of agency establishes the organizational commitment and the actions required to effectively manage security and privacy risk and protect the missions and business functions being carried out by the organization. The head of agency establishes security and privacy accountability and provides active support and oversight of monitoring and improvement for the security and privacy programs. Senior leadership commitment to security and privacy establishes a level of due diligence within the organization that promotes a climate for mission and business success.

### INFORMATION OWNER OR STEWARD
The _information owner_ or steward is an organizational official with statutory, management, or operational authority for specified information and the responsibility for establishing the policies and procedures governing its generation, collection, processing, dissemination, and disposal. In information-sharing environments, the information owner/steward is responsible for establishing the rules for appropriate use and protection of the information and retains that responsibility even when the information is shared with or provided to other organizations. The owner/steward of the information processed, stored, or transmitted by a system may or may not be the same individual as the system owner. An individual system may contain information from multiple information owners/stewards. Information owners/stewards provide input to system owners regarding the security and privacy requirements and controls for the systems where the information is processed, stored, or transmitted.

### MISSION OR BUSINESS OWNER
The _mission or business owner_ is the senior official or executive within an organization with specific mission or line of business responsibilities and that has a security or privacy interest in the organizational systems supporting those missions or lines of business. Mission or business owners are key stakeholders that have a significant role in establishing organizational mission and business processes and the protection needs and security and privacy requirements that ensure the successful conduct of the organization’s missions and business operations. Mission and business owners provide essential inputs to the risk management strategy, play an active part in the SDLC, and may also serve in the role of authorizing official.  

### RISK EXECUTIVE (FUNCTION)  
The _risk executive (function)_ is an individual or group within an organization that provides a comprehensive, organization-wide approach to risk management. The risk executive (function) is led by the senior accountable official for risk management and serves as the common risk management resource for senior leaders, executives, and managers, mission/business owners, chief information officers, senior agency information security officers, senior agency officials for privacy, system owners, common control providers, enterprise architects, security architects, systems security or privacy engineers, system security or privacy officers, and any other stakeholders having a vested interest in the mission/business success of organizations. The risk executive (function) is an inherent U.S. Government function and is assigned to government personnel only.  

The risk executive (function) ensures that risk considerations for systems (including authorization decisions for those systems and the common controls inherited by those systems), are viewed from an organization-wide perspective regarding the organization’s strategic goals and objectives in carrying out its core missions and business functions. The risk executive (function) ensures that managing risk is consistent throughout the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with other types of risk to ensure mission/business success. The risk executive (function) coordinates with senior leaders and executives to:
* Establish risk management roles and responsibilities;
* Develop and implement an organization-wide risk management strategy that provides a strategic view of security risks for the organization<sup>120</sup> and that guides and informs organizational risk decisions (including how risk is framed, assessed, responded to, and monitored over time);
* Provide a comprehensive, organization-wide, holistic approach for addressing risk—an approach that provides a greater understanding of the integrated operations of the organization;
* Manage threat, vulnerability, and security and privacy risk (including supply chain risk) information for organizational systems and the environments in which the systems operate;
* Establish organization-wide forums to consider all types and sources of risk (including aggregated risk);
* Identify the organizational risk posture based on the aggregated risk from the operation and use of systems and the respective environments of operation for which the organization is responsible;
* Provide oversight for the risk management activities carried out by organizations to help ensure consistent and effective risk-based decisions;
* Develop a broad-based understanding of risk regarding the strategic view of organizations and their integrated operations;
* Establish effective vehicles and serve as a focal point for communicating and sharing risk information among key stakeholders (e.g., authorizing officials and other senior leaders) internally and externally to organizations;
* Specify the degree of autonomy for subordinate organizations permitted by parent organizations regarding framing, assessing, responding to, and monitoring risk;
* Promote cooperation and collaboration among authorizing officials to include authorization actions requiring shared responsibility (e.g., joint authorizations);
* Provide an organization-wide forum to consider all sources of risk (including aggregated risk) to organizational operations and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation;
* Ensure that authorization decisions consider all factors necessary for mission and business success; and
* Ensure shared responsibility for supporting organizational missions and business functions using external providers receives the needed visibility and is elevated to appropriate decision-making authorities.
The risk executive (function) presumes neither a specific organizational structure nor formal responsibility assigned to any one individual or group within the organization. Heads of agencies or organizations may choose to retain the risk executive (function) or to delegate the function. The risk executive (function) requires a mix of skills, expertise, and perspectives to understand the strategic goals and objectives of organizations, organizational missions/business functions, technical possibilities and constraints, and key mandates and guidance that shape organizational operations. To provide this needed mixture, the risk executive (function) can be filled by a single individual or office (supported by an expert staff) or by a designated group (e.g., a risk board, executive steering committee, executive leadership council). The risk executive (function) fits into the organizational governance structure in such a way as to facilitate efficiency and effectiveness.

***

<sup>120</sup> Authorizing officials may have narrow or localized perspectives in rendering authorization decisions without fully understanding or explicitly accepting the organization-wide risks being incurred from such decisions.
{: .fs-2}
***

### SECURITY OR PRIVACY ARCHITECT
The _security or privacy architect_ is an individual, group, or organization responsible for ensuring that stakeholder protection needs and the corresponding system requirements necessary to protect organizational missions and business functions and individuals’ privacy are adequately addressed in the enterprise architecture including reference models, segment architectures, and solution architectures (systems supporting mission and business processes). The security or privacy architect serves as the primary liaison between the enterprise architect and the systems security or privacy engineer and coordinates with system owners, common control providers, and system security or privacy officers on the allocation of controls.  

Security or privacy architects, in coordination with system security or privacy officers, advise authorizing officials, chief information officers, senior accountable officials for risk management or risk executive (function), senior agency information security officers, and senior agency officials for privacy on a range of security and privacy issues. Examples include establishing authorization boundaries; establishing security or privacy alerts; assessing the severity of deficiencies in the system or controls; developing plans of action and milestones; creating risk mitigation approaches; and potential adverse effects of identified vulnerabilities or privacy risks.  

When the security architect and privacy architect are separate roles, the security architect is generally responsible for aspects of the enterprise architecture that protect information and information systems from unauthorized system activity or behavior to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability. The privacy architect is responsible for aspects of the enterprise architecture that ensure compliance with privacy requirements and manage the privacy risks to individuals associated with the processing of PII. Security and privacy architect responsibilities overlap regarding aspects of the enterprise architecture that protect the security of PII.  

### SENIOR ACCOUNTABLE OFFICIAL FOR RISK MANAGEMENT  
The _senior accountable official for risk management_ is the individual that leads and manages the risk executive (function) in an organization and is responsible for aligning information security and privacy risk management processes with strategic, operational, and budgetary planning processes. The senior accountable official for risk management is the head of the agency or an individual designated by the head of the agency. The senior accountable official for risk management determines the organizational structure and responsibilities of the risk executive (function), and in coordination with the head of the agency, may retain the risk executive (function) or delegate the function to another organizational official or group. The senior accountable official for risk management is an inherent U.S. Government function and is assigned to government personnel only.  

### SENIOR AGENCY INFORMATION SECURITY OFFICER  
The _senior agency information security officer_ is an organizational official responsible for carrying out the chief information officer security responsibilities under FISMA, and serving as the primary liaison for the chief information officer to the organization’s authorizing officials, system owners, common control providers, and system security officers. The senior agency information security officer is also responsible for coordinating with the senior agency official for privacy to ensure coordination between privacy and information security programs. The senior agency information security officer possesses the professional qualifications, including training and experience, required to administer security program functions; maintains security duties as a primary responsibility; and heads an office with the specific mission and resources to assist the organization in achieving trustworthy, secure information and systems in accordance with the requirements in FISMA. The senior agency information security officer may serve as authorizing official designated representative or as a security control assessor. The role of senior agency information security officer is an inherent U.S. Government function and is therefore assigned to government personnel only. Organizations may also refer to the senior agency information security officer as the senior information security officer or chief information security officer.  

### SENIOR AGENCY OFFICIAL FOR PRIVACY
The _senior agency official for privacy_ is the senior official or executive with agency-wide responsibility and accountability for ensuring compliance with applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risk. Among other things, the senior agency official for privacy is responsible for:
* Coordinating with the senior agency information security officer to ensure coordination of privacy and information security activities;
* Reviewing and approving the categorization of information systems that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of personally identifiable information;
* Designating which privacy controls will be treated as program management, common, system-specific, and hybrid privacy controls;
* Identifying assessment methodologies and metrics to determine whether privacy controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks;
* Reviewing and approving privacy plans for information systems prior to authorization, reauthorization, or ongoing authorization;
* Reviewing authorization packages for information systems that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or dispose of personally identifiable information to ensure compliance with privacy requirements and manage privacy risks;
* Conducting and documenting the results of privacy control assessments to verify the continued effectiveness of all privacy controls selected and implemented at the agency; and
* Establishing and maintaining a privacy continuous monitoring program to maintain ongoing awareness of privacy risks and assess privacy controls at a frequency sufficient to ensure compliance with privacy requirements and manage privacy risks.
The role of senior agency official for privacy is an inherent U.S. Government function and is therefore assigned to government personnel only.  

### SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR
The _system administrator_ is an individual, group, or organization responsible for setting up and maintaining a system or specific system elements. System administrator responsibilities include, for example, installing, configuring, and updating hardware and software; establishing and managing user accounts; overseeing or conducting backup, recovery, and reconstitution activities; implementing controls; and adhering to and enforcing organizational security and privacy policies and procedures. The system administrator role includes other types of system administrators (e.g., database administrators, network administrators, web administrators, and application administrators).  

### SYSTEM OWNER
The _system owner_ is an organizational official responsible for the procurement, development, integration, modification, operation, maintenance, and disposal of a system.<sup>121</sup> The system owner is responsible for addressing the operational interests of the user community (i.e., users who require access to the system to satisfy mission, business, or operational requirements) and for ensuring compliance with security requirements. In coordination with the system security and privacy officers, the system owner is responsible for the development and maintenance of the security and privacy plans and ensures that the system is operated in accordance with the selected and implemented controls.  

In coordination with the information owner/steward, the system owner decides who has access to the system (and with what types of privileges or access rights).<sup>122</sup> The system owner ensures that system users and support personnel receive the requisite security and privacy training. Based on guidance from the authorizing official, the system owner informs organizational officials of the need to conduct the authorization, ensures that resources are available for the effort, and provides the required system access, information, and documentation to control assessors. The system owner receives the security and privacy assessment results from the control assessors. After taking appropriate steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerabilities or security and privacy risks, the system owner assembles the authorization package and submits the package to the authorizing official or the authorizing official designated representative for adjudication.<sup>123</sup>

***

<sup>121</sup> Organizations may refer to system owners as program managers or business/asset owners.
{: .fs-2}
<sup>122</sup> The responsibility for deciding who has access to specific information within an organizational system (and with what types of privileges or access rights) may reside with the information owner/steward.
{: .fs-2}
<sup>123</sup> The authorizing official may choose to designate an individual other than the system owner to compile and assemble the information for the authorization package. In this situation, the designated individual coordinates the compilation and assembly activities with the system owner.
{: .fs-2}
 
***

### SYSTEM SECURITY OR PRIVACY OFFICER
The _system security or privacy officer_<sup>124</sup> is an individual responsible for ensuring that the security and privacy posture is maintained for an organizational system and works in close collaboration with the system owner. The system security or privacy officer also serves as a principal advisor on all matters, technical and otherwise, involving the controls for the system. The system security or privacy officer has the knowledge and expertise to manage the security or privacy aspects of an organizational system and, in many organizations, is assigned responsibility for the day-to-day system security or privacy operations. This responsibility may also include, but is not limited to, physical and environmental protection; personnel security; incident handling; and security and privacy training and awareness.  

The system security or privacy officer may be called on to assist in the development of the system-level security and privacy policies and procedures and to ensure compliance with those policies and procedures. In close coordination with the system owner, the system security or privacy officer often plays an active role in the monitoring of a system and its environment of operation to include developing and updating security and privacy plans, managing and controlling changes to the system, and assessing the security or privacy impact of those changes.  

When the system security officer and system privacy officer are separate roles, the system security officer is generally responsible for aspects of the system that protect information and information systems from unauthorized system activity or behavior to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability. The system privacy officer is responsible for aspects of the system that ensure compliance with privacy requirements and manage the privacy risks to individuals associated with the processing of PII. The responsibilities of system security officers and system privacy officers overlap regarding aspects of the system that protect the security of PII.  

***

<sup>124</sup> Organizations may define a system security manager or security manager role with similar responsibilities as a system security officer or with oversight responsibilities for a security program. In these situations, system security officers may, at the discretion of the organization, report directly to system security managers or security managers. Organizations may assign equivalent responsibilities for privacy to separate individuals with appropriate subject matter expertise.
{: .fs-2}

***

### SYSTEM USER
The _system user_ is an individual or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual that is authorized to access information and information systems to perform assigned duties. System user responsibilities include, but are not limited to, adhering to organizational policies that govern acceptable use of organizational systems; using the organization-provided information technology resources for defined purposes only; and reporting anomalous or suspicious system behavior.

### SYSTEMS SECURITY OR PRIVACY ENGINEER
The _systems security or privacy engineer_ is an individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting systems security or privacy engineering activities as part of the SDLC. Systems security and privacy engineering is a process that captures and refines security and privacy requirements for systems and ensures that the requirements are effectively integrated into systems and system elements through security or privacy architecting, design, development, and configuration. Systems security or privacy engineers are part of the development team— designing and developing organizational systems or upgrading existing systems along with ensuring continuous monitoring requirements are addressed at the system level. Systems security or privacy engineers employ best practices when implementing controls including software engineering methodologies; system and security or privacy engineering principles; secure or privacy-enhancing design, secure or privacy-enhancing architecture, and secure or privacy-enhancing coding techniques. Systems security or privacy engineers coordinate security and privacy activities with senior agency information security officers, senior agency officials for privacy, security and privacy architects, system owners, common control providers, and system security or privacy officers.  

When the systems security engineer and privacy engineer are separate roles, the systems security engineer is generally responsible for those activities associated with protecting information and information systems from unauthorized system activity or behavior to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability. The privacy engineer is responsible for those activities associated with ensuring compliance with privacy requirements and managing the privacy risks to individuals associated with the processing of PII. The responsibilities of systems security engineers and privacy engineers overlap regarding activities associated with protecting the security of PII.  



