---
layout: default
title: . GLOSSARY 
nav_order: 50000
---

#### APPENDIX B 
{: .no_toc }
## GLOSSARY 
{: .no_toc }

COMMON TERMS AND DEFINITIONS

1. TOC
{:toc}
Appendix B provides definitions for terminology used within Special Publication 800-37. Sources for terms used in this publication are cited as applicable. Where no citation is noted, the source of the definition is Special Publication 800-37.

**adequate security** [OMB A-130]  
Security protections commensurate with the risk resulting from the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information. This includes ensuring that information hosted on behalf of an agency and information systems and applications used by the agency operate effectively and provide appropriate confidentiality, integrity, and availability protections through the application of cost-effective security controls. 

**agency** [OMB A-130]  
Any executive agency or department, military department, Federal Government corporation, Federal Government- controlled corporation, or other establishment in the Executive Branch of the Federal Government, or any independent regulatory agency.

**allocation**  
The process an organization employs to assign security or privacy requirements to an information system or its environment of operation; or to assign controls to specific system elements responsible for providing a security or privacy capability (e.g., router, server, remote sensor).

**application**  
A software program hosted by an information system.

**assessment**  
See _control assessment_ or _risk assessment_.

**assessment plan**  
The objectives for the control assessments and a detailed roadmap of how to conduct such assessments.

**assessor**  
The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a security or privacy assessment.

**assignment statement**  
A control parameter that allows an organization to assign a specific, organization-defined value to the control or control enhancement (e.g., assigning a list of roles to be notified or a value for the frequency of testing).  

See _organization-defined control parameters and selection statement_.

**assurance** [ISO 15026, Adapted]  
Grounds for justified confidence that a [security or privacy] claim has been or will be achieved. 
 
_Note 1_: Assurance is typically obtained relative to a set of specific claims. The scope and focus of such claims may vary (e.g., security claims, safety claims) and the claims themselves may be interrelated.
{: .fs-2}
_Note 2_: Assurance is obtained through techniques and methods that generate credible evidence to substantiate claims.
{: .fs-2}

**audit log** [CNSSI 4009]  
A chronological record of system activities, including records of system accesses and operations performed in a given period.

**audit trail**  
A chronological record that reconstructs and examines the sequence of activities surrounding or leading to a specific operation, procedure, or event in a security-relevant transaction from inception to result.  

**authentication** [FIPS 200]  
Verifying the identity of a user, process, or device, often as a prerequisite to allowing access to resources in a system.a

**authenticity** The property of being genuine and being able to be verified and trusted; confidence in the validity of a transmission, a message, or message originator. See _authentication_.

**authorization boundary** [OMB A-130]  
All components of an information system to be authorized for operation by an authorizing official. This excludes separately authorized systems to which the information system is connected.  

**authorization package [OMB A-130]  
The essential information that an authorizing official uses to determine whether to authorize the operation of an information system or the provision of a designated set of common controls. At a minimum, the authorization package includes an executive summary, system security plan, privacy plan, security control assessment, privacy control assessment, and any relevant plans of action and milestones.  

**authorization to operate** [OMB A-130]  
The official management decision given by a senior Federal official or officials to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security and privacy controls. Authorization also applies to common controls inherited by agency information systems.  

**authorization to use**   
The official management decision given by an authorizing official to authorize the use of an information system, service, or application based on the information in an existing authorization package generated by another organization, and to explicitly accept the risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation based on the implementation of an agreed-upon set of controls in the system, service, or application.  

_Note_: An authorization to use typically applies to cloud and shared systems, services, and applications and is employed when an organization (referred to as the customer organization) chooses to accept the information in an existing authorization package generated by another organization (referred to as the provider organization).
{: .fs-2}

**authorizing official** [OMB A-130]  
A senior Federal official or executive with the authority to authorize (i.e., assume responsibility for) the operation of an information system or the use of a designated set of common controls at an acceptable level of risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.  

**authorizing official designated representative**  
An organizational official acting on behalf of an authorizing official in carrying out and coordinating the required activities associated with the authorization process.  

**availability** [44 USC 3552]
Ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information.  

**baseline**   
See _control baseline_.

**baseline configuration** [SP 800-128, Adapted]  
A documented set of specifications for a system, or a configuration item within a system, that has been formally reviewed and agreed on at a given point in time, and which can be changed only through change control procedures.  

**capability**  
A combination of mutually reinforcing controls implemented by technical means, physical means, and procedural means. Such controls are typically selected to achieve a common information security or privacy purpose.  

**capability requirement**  
A type of requirement describing the capability that the organization or system must provide to satisfy a stakeholder need.  

_Note_: Capability requirements related to information security and privacy are derived from stakeholder protection needs and the corresponding security and privacy requirements.
{: .fs-2}

**chain of trust** (supply chain)  
A certain level of trust in supply chain interactions such that each participant in the consumer-provider relationship provides adequate protection for its component products, systems, and services. 

**chief information officer** [OMB A-130]  
The senior official that provides advice and other assistance to the head of the agency and other senior management personnel of the agency to ensure that IT is acquired and information resources are managed for the agency in a manner that achieves the agency’s strategic goals and information resources management goals; and is responsible for ensuring agency compliance with, and prompt, efficient, and effective implementation of, the information policies and information resources management responsibilities, including the reduction of information collection burdens on the public.  

**chief information security officer**  
See _Senior Agency Information Security Officer_.  

**classified information**   
See classified national security information.

**classified national security information** [CNSSI 4009]  
Information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13526 or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and is marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form.  

**commodity service**  
A system service provided by a commercial service provider to a large and diverse set of consumers. The organization acquiring or receiving the commodity service possesses limited visibility into the management structure and operations of the provider, and while the organization may be able to negotiate service-level agreements, the organization is typically not able to require that the provider implement specific controls.

**common control** [OMB A-130]  
A security or privacy control that is inherited by multiple information systems or programs.

**common control provider**  
An organizational official responsible for the development, implementation, assessment, and monitoring of common controls (i.e., controls inheritable by organizational systems).  

**common criteria** [CNSSI 4009]  
Governing document that provides a comprehensive, rigorous method for specifying security function and assurance requirements for products and systems.  

**compensating controls**  
The security and privacy controls implemented in lieu of the controls in the baselines described in NIST Special Publication 800-53 that provide equivalent or comparable protection for a system or organization.  

**component**  
See _system component_.

**confidentiality** [44 USC 3552]  
Preserving authorized restrictions on information access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information.

**configuration control** [CNSSI 4009]  
Process for controlling modifications to hardware, firmware, software, and documentation to protect the information system against improper modifications before, during, and after system implementation.  

**configuration item** [SP 800-128]  
An aggregation of system components that is designated for configuration management and treated as a single entity in the configuration management process.  

**configuration management** [SP 800-128]  
A collection of activities focused on establishing and maintaining the integrity of information technology products and systems, through control of processes for initializing, changing, and monitoring the configurations of those products and systems throughout the system development life cycle.  

**configuration settings** [SP 800-128]  
The set of parameters that can be changed in hardware, software, or firmware that affect the security posture and/or functionality of the system.  

**continuous monitoring**  
Maintaining ongoing awareness to support organizational risk decisions.  

**continuous monitoring program**  
A program established to collect information in accordance with preestablished metrics, utilizing information readily available in part through implemented security controls.  

_Note_: Privacy and security continuous monitoring strategies and programs can be the same or different strategies and programs.
{: .fs-2}

**control**  
See _security control and privacy control_.

**control assessment**  
The testing or evaluation of the controls in an information system or an organization to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security or privacy requirements for the system or the organization.  

**control assessor**  
The individual, group, or organization responsible for conducting a control assessment. See _assessor_.

**control baseline**  
The set of controls that are applicable to information or an information system to meet legal, regulatory, or policy requirements, as well as address protection needs for the purpose of managing risk. 
 
**control designation**  
The process of assigning a control to one of three control types: common, hybrid, or system-specific.  

**control effectiveness**  
A measure of whether a given control is contributing to the reduction of information security or privacy risk.  

**control enhancement**  
Augmentation of a control to build in additional, but related, functionality to the control; increase the strength of the control; or add assurance to the control.  

**control inheritance**
A situation in which a system or application receives protection from controls (or portions of controls) that are developed, implemented, assessed, authorized, and monitored by entities other than those responsible for the system or application; entities either internal or external to the organization where the system or application resides. See _common control_.  

**control parameter**  
See _organization-defined control parameter_.

**controlled unclassified information** [32 CFR 2002.4]  
Information that the Government creates or possesses, or that an entity creates or possesses for or on behalf of the Government, that a law, regulation, or Government-wide policy requires or permits an agency to handle using safeguarding or dissemination controls. However, CUI does not include classified information or information a non-executive branch entity possesses and maintains in its own systems that did not come from, or was not created or possessed by or for, an executive branch agency or an entity acting for an agency.  

**countermeasures** [FIPS 200]  
Actions, devices, procedures, techniques, or other measures that reduce the vulnerability of a system. Synonymous with _security controls_ and _safeguards_.  

**cybersecurity** [OMB A-130]  
Prevention of damage to, protection of, and restoration of computers, electronic communications systems, electronic communications services, wire communication, and electronic communication, including information contained therein, to ensure its availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and nonrepudiation.  

**cybersecurity framework** [NIST CSF]  
A risk-based approach to reducing cybersecurity risk composed of three parts: the Framework Core, the Framework Profile, and the Framework Implementation Tiers.  

**cybersecurity framework category** [NIST CSF]  
The subdivision of a Function into groups of cybersecurity outcomes, closely tied to programmatic needs and particular activities.  

**cybersecurity framework core** [NIST CSF]  
A set of cybersecurity activities and references that are common across critical infrastructure sectors and are organized around particular outcomes. The Framework Core comprises four types of elements: Functions, Categories, Subcategories, and Informative References.  

**cybersecurity framework function** [NIST CSF]  
One of the main components of the Framework. Functions provide the highest level of structure for organizing basic cybersecurity activities into Categories and Subcategories. The five functions are Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover.  

**cybersecurity framework profile** [NIST CSF]  
A representation of the outcomes that a particular system or organization has selected from the Framework Categories and Subcategories.  

**cybersecurity framework subcategory** [NIST CSF]  
The subdivision of a Category into specific outcomes of technical and/or management activities.

**derived requirements** [SP 800-160 v1]  
A requirement that is implied or transformed from a higher-level requirement.

_Note 1_: Implied requirements cannot be assessed since they are not contained in any requirements baseline. The decomposition of requirements throughout the engineering process makes implicit requirements explicit, allowing them to be stated and captured in appropriate baselines and allowing associated assessment criteria to be stated.
{: .fs-2}

_Note 2_: A derived requirement must trace back to at least one higher-level requirement.
{: .fs-2}

**detect (CSF function)** [NIST CSF]  
Develop and implement the appropriate activities to identify the occurrence of a cybersecurity event.  

**developer**   
A general term that includes developers or manufacturers of systems, system components, or system services; systems integrators; vendors; and product resellers. Development of systems, components, or services can occur internally within organizations or through external entities. 

**enterprise** [CNSSI 4009]   
An organization with a defined mission/goal and a defined boundary, using systems to execute that mission, and with responsibility for managing its own risks and performance. An enterprise may consist of all or some of the following business aspects: acquisition, program management, human resources, financial management, security, and systems, information and mission management. See _organization_. 

**enterprise architecture** [44 USC 3601]  
A strategic information asset base, which defines the mission; the information necessary to perform the mission; the technologies necessary to perform the mission; and the transitional processes for implementing new technologies in response to changing mission needs; and includes a baseline architecture; a target architecture; and a sequencing plan.  

**environment of operation** [OMB A-130]  
The physical surroundings in which an information system processes, stores, and transmits information.  

**event** [SP 800-61, Adapted]  
Any observable occurrence in a network or information system.  

**executive agency** [OMB A-130]  
An executive department specified in 5 U.S.C. Sec. 101; a military department specified in 5 U.S.C. Sec. 102; an independent establishment as defined in 5 U.S.C. Sec. 104(1); and a wholly owned Government corporation fully subject to the provisions of 31 U.S.C. Chapter 91.  

**external system (or component)**  
A system or system element that is outside of the authorization boundary established by the organization and for which the organization typically has no direct control over the application of required controls or the assessment of control effectiveness.  

**external system service**  
A system service that is implemented outside of the authorization boundary of the organizational system (i.e., a service that is used by, but not a part of, the organizational system) and for which the organization typically has no direct control over the application of required controls or the assessment of control effectiveness.  

**external system service provider**  
A provider of external system services to an organization through a variety of consumer-producer relationships including but not limited to: joint ventures; business partnerships; outsourcing arrangements (i.e., through contracts, interagency agreements, lines of business arrangements); licensing agreements; and/or supply chain exchanges.

**external network**  
A network not controlled by the organization.  

**federal agency**  
See _executive agency_.

**federal enterprise architecture** [OMB FEA]  
A business-based framework for governmentwide improvement developed by the Office of Management and Budget that is intended to facilitate efforts to transform the federal government to one that is citizen-centered, results-oriented, and market-based.  

**federal information system** [40 USC 11331]  
An information system used or operated by an executive agency, by a contractor of an executive agency, or by another organization on behalf of an executive agency.  

**firmware** [CNSSI 4009]  
Computer programs and data stored in hardware - typically in read-only memory (ROM) or programmable read-only memory (PROM) - such that the programs and data cannot be dynamically written or modified during execution of the programs. See _hardware_ and _software_.

**hardware** [CNSSI 4009]  
The material physical components of a system. See _software_ and _firmware_.

**high-impact system** [FIPS 200]  
A system in which at least one security objective (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, or availability) is assigned a FIPS Publication 199 potential impact value of high.  

**hybrid control** [OMB A-130]  
A security or privacy control that is implemented for an information system in part as a common control and in part as a system-specific control. See _common control_ and _system-specific control_.

**identify (CSF function)** [NIST CSF]  
Develop and implement the appropriate activities to identify the occurrence of a cybersecurity event.  

**impact**  
With respect to security, the effect on organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation (including the national security interests of the United States) of a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or a system. With respect to privacy, the adverse effects that individuals could experience when an information system processes their PII.  

**impact level** See _impact value_.

**impact value** [FIPS 199] 
The assessed worst-case potential impact that could result from a compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information expressed as a value of low, moderate or high.  

**incident** [44 USC 3552]  
An occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.  

**independent verification and validation** [CNSSI 4009]  
A comprehensive review, analysis, and testing, (software and/or hardware) performed by an objective third party to confirm (i.e., verify) that the requirements are correctly defined, and to confirm (i.e., validate) that the system correctly implements the required functionality and security requirements.  

**industrial control system** [SP 800-82]  
General term that encompasses several types of control systems, including supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, distributed control systems (DCS), and other control system configurations such as programmable logic controllers (PLC) often found in the industrial sectors and critical infrastructures. An ICS consists of combinations of control components (e.g., electrical, mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic) that act together to achieve an industrial objective (e.g., manufacturing, transportation of matter or energy).  

**information** [OMB A-130]  
Any communication or representation of knowledge such as facts, data, or opinions in any medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, cartographic, narrative, electronic, or audiovisual forms.  

**information life cycle** [OMB A-130]  
The stages through which information passes, typically characterized as creation or collection, processing, dissemination, use, storage, and disposition, to include destruction and deletion.  

**information owner**  
Official with statutory or operational authority for specified information and responsibility for establishing the controls for its generation, collection, processing, dissemination, and disposal.  

**information resources** [44 USC 3502]  
Information and related resources, such as personnel, equipment, funds, and information technology.  
**information security** [44 USC 3552]  
The protection of information and systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability.  

**information security architecture** [OMB A-130]  
An embedded, integral part of the enterprise architecture that describes the structure and behavior of the enterprise security processes, security systems, personnel and organizational subunits, showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans. See _security architecture_.

**information security program plan** [OMB A-130]  
Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an organization-wide information security program and describes the program management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.  

**information security risk** [SP 800-30]  
The risk to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation due to the potential for unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information and/or systems.  

**information steward**  
An agency official with statutory or operational authority for specified information and responsibility for establishing the controls for its generation, collection, processing, dissemination, and disposal.  

**information system** [44 USC 3502]  
A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.  

**information system boundary**  
See _authorization boundary_.

**information system security officer** [CNSSI 4009]  
Individual with assigned responsibility for maintaining the appropriate operational security posture for an information system or program.  

**information system security plan** [OMB A-130]  
A formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.  

**information technology** [OMB A-130]  
Any services, equipment, or interconnected system(s) or subsystem(s) of equipment, that are used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the agency. For purposes of this definition, such services or equipment if used by the agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the agency that requires its use; or to a significant extent, its use in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. Information technology includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance), peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including cloud computing and help-desk services or other professional services which support any point of the life cycle of the equipment or service), and related resources. Information technology does not include any equipment that is acquired by a contractor incidental to a contract which does not require its use.  

**information technology product** 
See _system component_.

**information type** [FIPS 199]  
A specific category of information (e.g., privacy, medical,
proprietary, financial, investigative, contractor-sensitive, security management) defined by an organization or in some instances, by a specific law, executive order, directive, policy, or regulation.  
**interface** [CNSSI 4009]  
Common boundary between independent systems or modules where interactions take place.  

**integrity** [44 USC 3552]
Guarding against improper information modification or destruction, and includes ensuring information non-repudiation and authenticity.  

**joint authorization**  
Authorization involving multiple authorizing officials.  

**low-impact system** [FIPS 200]  
A system in which all three security objectives (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, and availability) are assigned a FIPS Publication 199 potential impact value of low.  

**media** [FIPS 200]  
Physical devices or writing surfaces including, but not limited to, magnetic tapes, optical disks, magnetic disks, Large-Scale Integration memory chips, and printouts (but excluding display media) onto which information is recorded, stored, or printed within a system.  

**moderate-impact system** [FIPS 200]  
A system in which at least one security objective (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, or availability) is assigned a FIPS Publication 199 potential impact value of moderate and no security objective is assigned a potential impact value of high.  

**national security system** [44 USC 3552]  
Any system (including any telecommunications system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency, or other organization on behalf of an agency—(i) the function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities; involves cryptologic activities related to national security; involves command and control of military forces; involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions (excluding a system that is to be used for routine administrative and business applications, for example, payroll, finance, logistics, and personnel management applications); or (ii) is protected at all times by procedures established for information that have been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.  

**network**  
A system implemented with a collection of interconnected components. Such components may include routers, hubs, cabling, telecommunications controllers, key distribution centers, and technical control devices.  

**network access**  
Access to a system by a user (or a process acting on behalf of a user) communicating through a network (e.g., a local area network, a wide area network, and Internet).  

**operational technology**  
Programmable systems or devices that interact with the physical environment (or manage devices that interact with the physical environment). These systems/devices detect or cause a direct change through the monitoring and/or control of devices, processes, and events. Examples include industrial control systems, building management systems, fire control systems, and physical access control mechanisms.  

**operations technology**  
See _operational technology_.

**organization** [FIPS 200, Adapted]  
An entity of any size, complexity, or positioning within an organizational structure (e.g., federal agencies, private enterprises, academic institutions, state, local, or tribal governments, or as appropriate, any of their operational elements).  

**organizationally-tailored control baseline**  
A control baseline tailored for a defined notional (type of) information system using overlays and/or system-specific control tailoring, and intended for use in selecting controls for multiple systems within one or more organizations.  

**organization-defined control parameter**  
The variable part of a control or control enhancement that can be instantiated by an organization during the tailoring process by either assigning an organization-defined value or selecting a value from a pre-defined list provided as part of the control or control enhancement.  

**overlay** [OMB A-130]  
A specification of security or privacy controls, control enhancements, supplemental guidance, and other supporting information employed during the tailoring process, that is intended to complement (and further refine) security control baselines. The overlay specification may be more stringent or less stringent than the original security control baseline specification and can be applied to multiple information systems.  

**personally identifiable information** [OMB A-130]  
Information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with other information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.  

**plan of action and milestones**  
A document that identifies tasks needing to be accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones in meeting the tasks, and scheduled completion dates for the milestones.  

**potential impact** [FIPS 199]  
The loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability could be expected to have a limited adverse effect (FIPS Publication 199 low); a serious adverse effect (FIPS Publication 199 moderate); or a severe or catastrophic adverse effect (FIPS Publication 199 high) on organizational operations, organizational assets, or individuals.  

**privacy architect**  
Individual, group, or organization responsible for ensuring that the system privacy requirements necessary to protect individuals’ privacy are adequately addressed in all aspects of enterprise architecture including reference models, segment and solution architectures, and information systems processing PII.

**privacy architecture**  
An embedded, integral part of the enterprise architecture that describes the structure and behavior for an enterprise’s privacy protection processes, technical measures, personnel and organizational sub-units, showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans.  

**privacy control** [OMB A-130]
The administrative, technical, and physical safeguards employed within an agency to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks.  

_Note_: Controls can be selected to achieve multiple objectives; those controls that are selected to achieve both security and privacy objectives require a degree of collaboration between the organization’s information security program and privacy program.
{: .fs-2}

**privacy control assessment** [OMB A-130]  
The assessment of privacy controls to determine whether the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks. A privacy control assessment is both an assessment and a formal document detailing the process and the outcome of the assessment.  

**privacy control baseline**  
A collection of controls specifically assembled or brought together by a group, organization, or community of interest to address the privacy protection needs of individuals.

**privacy impact assessment** [OMB A-130]  
An analysis of how information is handled to ensure handling conforms to applicable legal, regulatory, and policy requirements regarding privacy; to determine the risks and effects of creating, collecting, using, processing, storing, maintaining, disseminating, disclosing, and disposing of information in identifiable form in an electronic information system; and to examine and evaluate protections and alternate processes for handling information to mitigate potential privacy concerns. A privacy impact assessment is both an analysis and a formal document detailing the process and the outcome of the analysis.  

**privacy plan** [OMB A-130]  
A formal document that details the privacy controls selected for an information system or environment of operation that are in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks, details how the controls have been implemented, and describes the methodologies and metrics that will be used to assess the controls.  

**privacy posture**  
The privacy posture represents the status of the information systems and information resources (e.g., personnel, equipment, funds, and information technology) within an organization based on information assurance resources (e.g., people, hardware, software, policies, procedures) and the capabilities in place to comply with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks and to react as the situation changes.  

**privacy program plan** [OMB A-130]  
A formal document that provides an overview of an agency’s privacy program, including a description of the structure of the privacy program, the resources dedicated to the privacy program, the role of the Senior Agency Official for Privacy and other privacy officials and staff, the strategic goals and objectives of the privacy program, and the program management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks.  

**privacy requirement**  
A requirement that applies to an information system or an organization that is derived from applicable laws, executive orders, directives, policies, standards, regulations, procedures, and/or mission/business needs with respect to privacy.  

_Note_: The term privacy requirement can be used in a variety of contexts from high-level policy activities to low-level implementation activities in system development and engineering disciplines.
{: .fs-2}

**privacy information**  
Information that describes the privacy posture of an information system or organization.

**protect (CSF function)** [NIST CSF]  
Develop and implement the appropriate safeguards to ensure delivery of critical infrastructure services.

**provenance**  
The chronology of the origin, development, ownership, location, and changes to a system or system component and associated data. It may also include personnel and processes used to interact with or make modifications to the system, component, or associated data.  

**reciprocity**  
Agreement among participating organizations to accept each other’s security assessments to reuse system resources and/or to accept each other’s assessed security posture to share information.  

**records** [44 USC 3301]  
All recorded information, regardless of form or characteristics, made or received by a Federal agency under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the United States Government or because of the informational value of data in them.  

**recover (CSF function)** [NIST CSF]  
Develop and implement the appropriate activities to maintain plans for resilience and to restore any capabilities or services that were impaired due to a cybersecurity event.  

**resilience** [CNSSI 4009]  
The ability to prepare for and adapt to changing conditions and withstand and recover rapidly from disruptions. Resilience includes the ability to withstand and recover from deliberate attacks, accidents, or naturally occurring threats or incidents.  

**respond (CSF function)** [NIST CSF]  
Develop and implement the appropriate activities to take action regarding a detected cybersecurity event.  

**risk** [OMB A-130]  
A measure of the extent to which an entity is threatened by a potential circumstance or event, and typically is a function of: (i) the adverse impact, or magnitude of harm, that would arise if the circumstance or event occurs; and (ii) the likelihood of occurrence.  

**risk assessment** [SP 800-30]  
The process of identifying risks to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, resulting from the operation of a system.  

**risk executive (function)** [SP 800-39]  
An individual or group within an organization, led by the senior accountable official for risk management, that helps to ensure that security risk considerations for individual systems, to include the authorization decisions for those systems, are viewed from an organization-wide perspective with regard to the overall strategic goals and objectives of the organization in carrying out its missions and business functions; and managing risk from individual systems is consistent across the organization, reflects organizational risk tolerance, and is considered along with other organizational risks affecting mission/business success.  

**risk management** [OMB A-130]  
The program and supporting processes to manage risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image, reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, and includes: establishing the context for risk-related activities; assessing risk; responding to risk once determined; and monitoring risk over time.  

**risk mitigation** [CNSSI 4009]  
Prioritizing, evaluating, and implementing the appropriate risk- reducing controls/countermeasures recommended from the risk management process.  

**risk response** [OMB A-130]  
Accepting, avoiding, mitigating, sharing, or transferring risk to agency operations, agency assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation.  

**sanitization** [SP 800-88]  
A process to render access to target data on the media infeasible for a given level of effort. Clear, purge, and destroy are actions that can be taken to sanitize media.  

**scoping considerations**  
A part of tailoring guidance providing organizations with specific considerations on the applicability and implementation of controls in the control baselines. Considerations include policy/regulatory, technology, physical infrastructure, system element allocation, operational/environmental, public access, scalability, common control, and security objective.  

**security** [CNSSI 4009]  
A condition that results from the establishment and maintenance of protective measures that enable an organization to perform its mission or critical functions despite risks posed by threats to its use of systems. Protective measures may involve a combination of deterrence, avoidance, prevention, detection, recovery, and correction that should form part of the organization’s risk management approach.  

**security architect**  
Individual, group, or organization responsible for ensuring that the information security requirements necessary to protect the organization’s core missions and business processes are adequately addressed in all aspects of enterprise architecture including reference models, segment and solution architectures, and the resulting information systems supporting those missions and business processes.  

**security architecture** [SP 800-39]  
An embedded, integral part of the enterprise architecture that describes the structure and behavior for an enterprise’s security processes, information security systems, personnel and organizational sub-units, showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans. See _information security architecture_.  

[SP 800-160 v1]  
A set of physical and logical security-relevant representations (i.e., views) of system architecture that conveys information about how the system is partitioned into security domains and makes use of security-relevant elements to enforce security policies within and between security domains based on how data and information must be protected.   

_Note_:The security architecture reflects security domains, the placement of security-relevant elements within the security domains, the interconnections and trust relationships between the security-relevant elements, and the behavior and interactions between the security-relevant elements. The security architecture, similar to the system architecture, may be expressed at different levels of abstraction and with different scopes.  
{: .fs-2}

**security categorization**  
The process of determining the security category for information or a system. Security categorization methodologies are described in CNSS Instruction 1253 for national security systems and in
FIPS Publication 199 for other than national security systems. See _security category_.

**security category** [OMB A-130]  
The characterization of information or an information system based on an assessment of the potential impact that a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of such information or information system would have on agency operations, agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.  

**security control** [OMB A-130]  
The safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an information system or an organization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its information.  

**security control assessment** [OMB A-130]  
The testing or evaluation of security controls to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for an information system or organization.  

**security control baseline** [OMB A-130]  
The set of minimum security controls defined for a low-impact, moderate-impact, or high-impact information system. See also _control baseline_.  

**security objective** [FIPS 199]  
Confidentiality, integrity, or availability.  

**security plan**  
See _information system security plan_.

**security posture** [CNSSI 4009]  
The security status of an enterprise’s networks, information, and
systems based on information assurance resources (e.g., people, hardware, software, policies) and capabilities in place to manage the defense of the enterprise and to react as the situation changes. Synonymous with _security status_.  

**security requirement** [FIPS 200, Adapted]  
A requirement levied on an information system or an organization that is derived from applicable laws, executive orders, directives, policies, standards, instructions, regulations, procedures, and/or mission/business needs to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information that is being processed, stored, or transmitted.  

_Note_: Security requirements can be used in a variety of contexts from high- level policy activities to low-level implementation activities in system development and engineering disciplines.
{: .fs-2}

**security information**  
Information within the system that can potentially impact the operation of security functions or the provision of security services in a manner that could result in failure to enforce the system security policy or maintain isolation of code and data.  

**selection statement**  
A control parameter that allows an organization to select a value from a list of pre-defined values provided as part of the control or control enhancement (e.g., selecting to either restrict an action or prohibit an action).  
See _assignment statement_ and _organization-defined control parameter_.  

**senior agency information security officer** [44 USC 3544]  
Official responsible for carrying out the Chief Information Officer responsibilities under FISMA and serving as the Chief Information Officer’s primary liaison to the agency’s authorizing officials, information system owners, and information system security officers.  

**senior agency official for privacy** [OMB A-130]  
The senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has agency-wide responsibility for privacy, including implementation of privacy protections; compliance with Federal laws, regulations, and policies relating to privacy; management of privacy risks at the agency; and a central policy-making role in the agency’s development and evaluation of legislative, regulatory, and other policy proposals.  

**senior accountable official for risk management** [OMB M-17-25]  
The senior official, designated by the head of each agency, who has vision into all areas of the organization and is responsible for alignment of information security management processes with strategic, operational, and budgetary planning processes.  

**software** [CNSSI 4009]  
Computer programs and associated data that may be dynamically written or modified during execution. 

 
**specification** [IEEE 610.12]  
A document that specifies, in a complete, precise, verifiable manner, the requirements, design, behavior, or other characteristics of a system or component and often the procedures for determining whether these provisions have been satisfied. See _specification requirement_.  

**specification requirement**  
A type of requirement that provides a specification for a specific capability that implements all or part of a control and that may be assessed (i.e., as part of the verification, validation, testing, and evaluation processes).  

**statement of work requirement**  
A type of requirement that represents an action that is performed operationally or during system development.  

**subsystem**  
A major subdivision or element of an information system consisting of information, information technology, and personnel that performs one or more specific functions.  

**supply chain** [OMB A-130]  
Linked set of resources and processes between multiple tiers of developers that begins with the sourcing of products and services and extends through the design, development, manufacturing, processing, handling, and delivery of products and services to the acquirer.  

**supply chain risk** [OMB A-130]  
Risks that arise from the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or information systems and reflect the potential adverse impacts to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation.  

**supply chain risk management** [OMB A-130]  
The process of identifying, assessing, and mitigating the risks associated with the global and distributed nature of information and communications technology product and service supply chains.  

**system** [CNSSI 4009]  
Any organized assembly of resources and procedures united and regulated by interaction or interdependence to accomplish a set of specific functions. See information system.  

_Note_: Systems also include specialized systems such as industrial/process controls systems, telephone switching and private branch exchange (PBX) systems, and environmental control systems.  
{: .fs-2}

[ISO 15288]  
Combination of interacting elements organized to achieve one or more stated purposes.  

_Note 1_: There are many types of systems. Examples include: general and special-purpose information systems; command, control, and communication systems; crypto modules; central processing unit and graphics processor boards; industrial/process control systems; flight control systems; weapons, targeting, and fire control systems; medical devices and treatment systems; financial, banking, and merchandising transaction systems; and social networking systems.  
{: .fs-2}
_Note 2_: The interacting elements in the definition of system include hardware, software, data, humans, processes, facilities, materials, and naturally occurring physical entities. 
{: .fs-2} 
_Note 3_: System of systems is included in the definition of system.
{: .fs-2}

**system boundary**  
See _authorization boundary_.

**system component** [SP 800-128]  
A discrete identifiable information technology asset that represents a building block of a system and may include hardware, software, and firmware.  

**system element** [ISO 15288]  
Member of a set of elements that constitute a system.  

_Note 1_: A system element can be a discrete component, product, service, subsystem, system, infrastructure, or enterprise.
{: .fs-2}
_Note 2_: Each element of the system is implemented to fulfill specified requirements.
{: .fs-2}
_Note 3_: The recursive nature of the term allows the term system to apply equally when referring to a discrete component or to a large, complex, geographically distributed system-of-systems.
{: .fs-2}
_Note 4_: System elements are implemented by: hardware, software, and firmware that perform operations on data/information; physical structures, devices, and components in the environment of operation; and the people, processes, and procedures for operating, sustaining, and supporting the system elements.
{: .fs-2}
_Note 5_: System elements and information resources (as defined at 44 U.S.C. Sec. 3502 and in this document) are interchangeable terms as used in this document.
{: .fs-2}

**system development life cycle**  
The scope of activities associated with a system, encompassing the system’s initiation, development and acquisition, implementation, operation and maintenance, and ultimately its disposal that instigates another system initiation.  

**system privacy officer**  
Individual with assigned responsibility for maintaining the appropriate operational privacy posture for a system or program.  

**systems privacy engineer**  
Individual assigned responsibility for conducting systems privacy engineering activities.  

**systems privacy engineering**  
Process that captures and refines privacy requirements and ensures their integration into information technology component products and information systems through purposeful privacy design or configuration.  

**systems security engineer**  
Individual assigned responsibility for conducting systems security engineering activities.  

**systems security engineering**  
Process that captures and refines security requirements and ensures their integration into information technology component products and information systems through purposeful security design or configuration.  

**system security officer**  
Individual with assigned responsibility for maintaining the appropriate operational security posture for an information system or program.  

**system security plan**  
See _information system security plan_.

**system-related privacy risk** [OMB A-130]  
Risk to an individual or individuals associated with the agency’s creation, collection, use, processing, storage, maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of their PII. See _risk_.  

**system-related security risk** [SP 800-30]  
Risk that arises through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or systems and that considers impacts to the organization (including assets, mission, functions, image, or reputation), individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. See _risk_.

**system-specific control** [OMB A-130]  
A security or privacy control for an information system that is implemented at the system level and is not inherited by any other information system.  

**tailored control baseline**  
A set of controls resulting from the application of tailoring guidance to a control baseline. See _tailoring_.  

**tailoring** [OMB A-130]  
The process by which security control baselines are modified by identifying and designating common controls; applying scoping considerations; selecting compensating controls; assigning specific values to agency-defined control parameters; supplementing baselines with additional controls or control enhancements; and providing additional specification information for control implementation. The tailoring process may also be applied to privacy controls.  

**threat** [SP 800-30]  
Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations, organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, or the Nation through a system via unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure, modification of information, and/or denial of service.  

**threat source** [FIPS 200]  
The intent and method targeted at the intentional exploitation of a vulnerability or a situation and method that may accidentally trigger a vulnerability. See _threat agent_.  

**trustworthiness** [CNSSI 4009]  
The attribute of a person or enterprise that provides confidence to others of the qualifications, capabilities, and reliability of that entity to perform specific tasks and fulfill assigned responsibilities.  

**trustworthiness** (system)  
The degree to which an information system (including the information technology components that are used to build the system) can be expected to preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information being processed, stored, or transmitted by the system across the full range of threats and individuals’ privacy.  

**trustworthy information system** [OMB A-130]  
An information system that is believed to be capable of operating within defined levels of risk despite the environmental disruptions, human errors, structural failures, and purposeful attacks that are expected to occur in its environment of operation.  

**system user**  
Individual, or (system) process acting on behalf of an individual, authorized to access a system.  

**vulnerability** [CNSSI 4009]  
Weakness in an information system, system security procedures, internal controls, or implementation that could be exploited or triggered by a threat source.  

_Note_: The term _weakness_ is synonymous for _deficiency_. Weakness may result in security and/or privacy risks.
{: .fs-2}

**vulnerability assessment** [CNSSI 4009]  
Systematic examination of an information system or product to determine the adequacy of security measures, identify security deficiencies, provide data from which to predict the effectiveness of proposed security measures, and confirm the adequacy of such measures after implementation.  




 




